>> Evgenii Ray: We are going to do some
live coding, a very simple exercise.
So we have some html template
that we need to utilize and
we have our createCardComponent function.
So we need to implement the function
that takes the title and the body,
this is the string variables.
And sets it to the free tech and
card_body_content.
There are multiple ways how
can you implement this, but
let's see what we can do here.
And here we call this function so
this function should return HTML element.
And then we append this
element to the container.
So to start with exercise,
check out the repository.
I hope you will have the link
to repository in the chat,
or you can also click on the slides.
And open the folder begin,
and open the file index.html.
We don't need any compiler or
complex setup it will be
enough just to work with HTML,
use your favorite editor.
And now I'm going to switch to the code.
So I opened the index.html.
So, here we have our container,
then we have our HTML which is
right now stored as a string.
And also we have our HTML element,
the function that creates our car element.
Right now it's empty, so
our goal will be to implement this.
So, what can we do here?
We could potentially just say,
for instance, container.
And then set the innerHTML.
But then we would have to work
with the string directly, and
representing the HTML as a string
is not the best way to do things.
So we want to have some kind of reusable
way, how can we represent the templates.
So, and apparently the innerHTML,
we have the special
tag called template, so
we can remove this line and
in the head I'm going to
use the template tag.
So what this template does,
it basically stores
your HTML in the lightweight
object in memory.
So, this content is not
querryable by any DOM API.
So any external scripts will not
be able to access this content.
So, it's also not rendered
on the final render tree.
So if you use a try,
tries to traverse the DOM tree,
they will not be able to see
that this template is utilized.
It's kind of a lightweight
representation of our card.
We edit the card template into the
template tag, and we also assign the ID.
So the content of the template is not
queryable, but the template is, so
we need to clone the content
of the template.
So let's update,
let's first query the template.
So we can do document getElementById,
and then we use our card template.
So now we have the reference
to the card template.
Let's clone the content.
As we know, the templates use the
fragment, so we need to clone the content
of the fragment for the special
method that I'm going to show now.
So we're gonna access the template.
And the template has
the property called content.
So the content gives us the fragment
that we need to work with.
So, then I'm going to use the clone node.
And I'm providing the true
flag to do the deep call.
And then I use the first element child
that will return me the article.
So by default the, first,
it will return the fragment but
we need to access this element, and
this element is the element, and
that's why we use the first element child.
So now we have our article.
We want to update the article content.
So we need to set the card title and the
card body content, so let's query that.
So let's call it cardTitle and
cardBody and
then we use the document
querySelectorAll and
then we're providing two selectors.
The first one is the card title,
then we need to pass the
>> Evgenii Ray: Card_body_content_class.
So now we selected two elements,
cardTitle and the cardBody.
And now we want to update the text
content of this elements.
So we use the text content property and
then assign title.
Then we need to use cardBody and
then assign thE textContent
to the body variable.
Okay, now we're returning the card and
if we run this example,
so now we're creating a new card
element and then we'll return
this card element from the credit
card component function.
Assign some random text and
if we run the browser we see
that this doesn't work,
and let's see why [LAUGH].
And apparently, we're trying to set the
text content so the property undefined.
So probably we have a mistake
in how we query things.
Yeah, so we don't need to query
the document, we need to query card.
So if we fix that, yeah, now we have
our card rendered and all elements set.
And this is it for the first exercise.
Okay, let's have the quick look of
how could we potentially solve that.
The first solution would involve,
had treating the article as a string.
So we could create the placeholders
within the context and
just replace it with the replace function.
But this means we will need
to work with a string.
And then we could append
the content using the innerHTML.
But this is not the best
way because we will have
to pass the code content,
here in innerHTML.
And if we want to repeat this operation,
then it's not the most efficient way.
So what we did is we just
use the document fragment,
which is the lightweight
representation of HTML element.
And since it's shielded from,
causing reflow,
we can do whatever we want in memory.
So it can also be reused many times,
and it says isolated from the queries.
And yeah, we utilize it to keep
our markup component in HTML,
which is a very natural place
where we should keep such things.
And then we just updated our function, and
the solutions and
here is the final solution.
Before we jump to the next section,
do we have any questions?
>> Student: Can you just explain again
briefly why doing it that way doesn't
trigger reflow?
>> Evgenii Ray: Yeah, so
when you modify the fragment,
it's not within the DOM tree.
It's actually just in memory.
So when you update any properties,
so it doesn't trigger any reflow.
So, if you could potentially have
the element or in the DOM tree and
you start updating the elements of
the properties of this element,
then this would cause reflow because
the element already in a DOM tree.
But since it's in memory, yeah,
we can do any operations and
it's disconnected from the main DOM tree.
The only thing that counts the reflow
is when we use a pen child.
So the DOM API is actually pretty simple,
it has some limited set of
methods that we can utilize.
And it's very useful if we're trying
to build some low level things.
But we need to think about
the caveats that the DOM API has, for
instance, make sure that you utilize
the HTML life collection wisely.
So don't query too many elements and
then don't try to read
the HTML left collection because
it will result to quadratic time.
For most of the cases, the queries
lecture has a good performance and
you can just utilize it almost everywhere.
So for rare cases when you really need
to have the live collection, make sure
that you work with a small subset of
data to reduce any performance impact.